 Hello friends, welcome back to my youtube channel, Basic or ServiceNow Learning. So in this video is the first video of ServiceNow training session or I can say ServiceNow training series. The series where we will cover each and every topic mentioned in this syllabus. So I will be covering all these topics one by one in videos. So in today's video I am going to cover this first and second, the introduction to ServiceNow, the configuring users and groups and administration. So the first part is basically a theoretical and the second part is basically a implementation in ServiceNow instance, that how to create users, how to create groups, how to create roles, what is users, what are groups, what are roles in ServiceNow. So let's see what we are going to cover in this video. In this video I will give you a brief of ServiceNow, basically ServiceNow introduction. We will talk about users, we will talk about roles, we will talk about groups and we will also implement a use case. The use case is like how to create a user, how to create a custom roles, how to create a groups in ServiceNow, how to assign roles to user directly, how to assign roles to group, how to add user to group. If we are adding a role right, so we have to remove the role as well. So how to remove role from the users and how to remove roles from the groups. So these are all use cases we are going to cover in today's video. So let's start with ServiceNow introduction. So that is basically a theoretical part. So ServiceNow is basically a product of ServiceNow Inc, which is an American cloud-based IT management company. It was founded in 2004 by Fred Ludi and its headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. ServiceNow is a cloud-based IT management tool, which is used to automate business processes and provides best service to customers and encourages best practices in managing all services as a business. ServiceNow was first introduced as ITSM tool used for various IT activities such as asset management, incident management, change management, problem management, knowledge management, CMDB etc. So basically these incident management, change management, asset management, problem management, these are basically ITSM applications. These are the very basic applications or default applications which is given by ServiceNow and most of the companies are working on incident management, change management I believe. So these are the very basic modules, incident management and change management. But now ServiceNow becomes huge and serves a lot of other applications as well, such as ITO applications and ITBM applications. So as we move forward with other sections of this training sessions, then we will also cover these ITO applications and ITBM applications. What all ITO applications ServiceNow have, what all ITBM applications ServiceNow have. We will also talk about these ITSM applications in details, what exactly the incident management process is, what exactly the change management process is, problem management process and all. So we will cover all these things in later videos as well. So this is basically introduction session of ServiceNow. So we are only covering these 30 sections only. ServiceNow platform supports several database technologies such as MASQL, Oracle etc. ServiceNow platform is written in Java, apps are written in JavaScript. So if you are learning ServiceNow, you should have a basic knowledge of JavaScript, you must have a basic knowledge of AngularJS, you must have a basic knowledge of HTML and CSS at least. If you want to proceed your career in ServiceNow development, but if you are proceeding your career in ServiceNow administration or if you are proceeding your career in ServiceNow functional consultant, so doesn't mean that you know JavaScript or not. So let's see. So this is basically a very brief introduction of ServiceNow because most of the time interviewer ask like what is ServiceNow, so at least you should be aware of that what is ServiceNow, what exactly is the tool is. This tool is basically for ITSM, ITBM and ITOM applications. It's a cloud based IT management tool. So here now let's see what is users. So you know that each and every application, either it is a software, it is a web application or any application, so it is nothing without users. In ServiceNow, user is basically those individuals who can access ServiceNow instance. And to create users in ServiceNow, user admin or IT role is required. So let's navigate to ServiceNow application so that we can understand that how we can create users and from where we can create users. So friends, this is my ServiceNow personal developer instance. If you are not aware of like what is a personal development instance, so I will tell you that this is basically an instance which is provided by ServiceNow. This is free of cost. You can create your access and you can create your instance directly. So I have already posted a video, you can check it in my playlist. So where you can find out how to create your personal developer instance. So you can create your personal developer instance. Once you create that, then you have an admin access of that instance. See, okay. And then you can perform the activities which I am going to perform. And you can also explore the things of ServiceNow instance. So we are talking about users. So before we start with users, I'll give you a little brief on this application first. See whatever we are looking here in the left hand side navigation, see these are the applications which are provided by ServiceNow. By default is this personal development instance. Okay, there are lots of applications. See okay, see I was talking about change earlier, right? Change, problem, incident, see you have access here. You can access those applications. You can do hands on if you want to become an incident manager or you want to become a problem manager or change manager. Okay, you can do hands on over here. Okay, we have different applications here, even though we have development applications also here. Okay, so if you want to do development in ServiceNow, you need admin access from where you can access the applications like system definition. See from here we can do development activities. Okay, there are lots of other applications as well. So these are the applications which are provided by ServiceNow on the left hand navigation. Each and every application has different modules. Modules means like in incident we have module called create new. This basically used to create an incident. Assign to means different list view and this open is basically a list view. So we have different modules available in each and every application. Each and every module is for performing different activities. Okay, same as here we have see profile impersonate user, elevate role. Okay here we have settings which is tell us that what update set we are using in development sections, what applications we are using, right? Like notifications if you want to create some personal notifications or remove some notifications then you can use it from here. Forms, lists, themes, journals. Okay, this is basically a search. We can say global search. You can search anything from here. Okay whatever data is available in ServiceNow will be displayed to you. So this is basically ServiceNow application. So when we move forward with different tutorials or different training sessions then you will be come to know more about each and everything. So now let's move to user part first. So to create a user or to find out from where to create a user, tap user in this filter navigator. Once you tap user, see it gives us a filter result. So scroll down under user administration. See we have a modules called users, groups and roles. Okay so we are going to cover these users, groups and roles today in this video. Okay so what I am going to do, I am going to open this user in a new tab. See we have 590 users in this system right now. Okay and we are going to create more users today. So from here we can create a new user. This icon is basically, see this gear icon is basically for personalizing the list that what all columns you want to display. Like this is the selected columns. If you want to add more columns we can add from here like I am saying first name. So see this first name come over here. I am just setting it to position where I want to display it. I say okay. Okay once I personalize the list, see the first name is displaying over here. So it means this particular gear icon is used to customize this. Okay what you want to see, what you want to remove from here. Okay and this is basically filter vision that what all records you can create your own query over here. Let's say I am saying that active is true. Means those users are active. Okay active is true display to me. So it will display me all the users those who are active. So it will filter the results. So this is basically used for filtration. This is basically used for personalization. So these two functionality you will get for each and every list view in service now. So now let's come back to users. So I am going to create a new user. Click on this new button. So once you click on new button, see we have a form available. So we have to fill this form. So as I told you that earlier that to create a user a person need a ITIL role or a user underscore admin role or admin role right to create a user. So user ID is basically a login ID. So I am saying I am giving a demo. So I am saying demo user. Okay the first name is first. Last name is demo. Okay the name you can give any name. Okay title if you want to give this is not mandatory. So I am not giving it. See this is mandatory and this is not mandatory. Department I am not giving I am saying password 123. Okay password needs reset. If I checked it, it means when the person login the system this user first time login the system then he need to reset the password. This logged out basically if I checked it, it means user is active in the system but he cannot do any login. If I click on this, this basically happens like if a person enters a password more than three times a wrong password then the system get locked out means he had to reset the password and then he can log into the system. Okay active is basically means he is in the organization. He is active user. If I unchecked it, it means that he is not active. So he is no more in the organization. Okay so basically when the person gave a interview for system administration then interviewer ask them what is the difference between a locked out and an active or inactive right. So person has to explain that locked out user is basically the user who is active in the system but anyhow he cannot log into the system. Okay and inactive means the person is no more in the organization. Okay here we have web service access only if we are doing some integration or something and we don't want to give a interface access only web service access then we can use this checkboxes. Okay email id of a user I am saying like demo user at the rate demo.com. Manager if you want to give a manager of a person then you can give a name accordingly. Language okay calendar integration time zone okay that you can select accordingly. Business I have given the business phone mobile phone. Okay now I am just saving it. See once I clicked on save see data get saved and new more related list and related links get introduced. Okay view subscription, set a password, see roles, groups, delegate, skills, subscription, manage subscription. So here is roles. So if we want to give a role to a particular person then we can give a role from here. We can click on edit button. Okay and we can see what role we want to give to a user. We can select a role from here. Let's say this and then move this role by using this and then we can give a role to a user. Okay and we save this then this role is assigned to that user. So currently I am not giving a role because first we have a understanding of role and then we can work on this giving a role and all. Okay so currently I am only creating a user. See it is not assigned to any group so that's why the group is not mentioned over here. Okay so in this way we can create a user. Okay so see I have not given any role to a user even though I have not assigned this user to any group. So let's login with this user and let's see what kind of interface he can see. So I copy this user id and I am logging to this instance through this user. So here I am getting like this. My password was 123. I am just clicking on login. See once I click on login, this person now have access of a ServiceNow instance. Okay see but the application which is available for him is only self-service. So this is what is said connect live feed. Self-service basically kind of like an employee self-service through which he can create a request through which he can work on knowledge or he can create a quotient or something and there are some other like incident to create an incident. So he can create the tickets like request, incident, knowledge for himself only. He cannot work for others through this access. So here the person does not have any role. So he is a ESS user only. Okay without any role. Now this is a user. Now let's talk about rules. So same as in user administration see we have rules or you can tab rule over here. Okay the same menu you will get. So let's open this role in a new tab. See we have different rules available over here. So role is basically to specify that what different users and user group can see and do in ServiceNow instance. So from here we can create a new role. So in ServiceNow there are different types of role such as like a base system roles, special administrator roles, custom roles and read only roles. So base system roles is a role which is by default provided by ServiceNow. And custom roles are the roles which we are going to create now. And some system administrator roles are basically a base system role but it is kind of an admin role like a business underscore rule underscore admin like a client underscore script underscore admin. These are basically a system administrator role. So this provides access to a user to work on a client scripts to work on a business rules. And the read only role like a snc underscore read underscore only which is provided to a user. So let's say he wants that he can only read the things. So these are basically four categorizations of roles. Base system role, special administrator role, custom role and read only role. So whatever role we will create from here that is basically a custom role. So to create a role click on new. Once you click on here so you can give a role name. Let's say I'm saying you underscore demo role. The best way is to underscore so that you can identify that what is the custom role what is the base role. So the best practice is that whenever you are giving a role give us you underscore. In case if you are working in some different company then they must be having some specific format to define that what is the custom role. Okay subscription required I'm saying no, unspecified. Application global, application is basically that what all access what all application must be having this role. This is elevated privilege role. So elevated privilege role is basically a role which is given to a person for a particular time like half an hour for an hour. So if I check this checkbox it means it's an elevated privilege role which admin can give to any person if you want that a person will perform a particular task for a specified time. Such as security underscore admin is basically a elevated privilege role which is given to a security admin for like an hour or I believe that for 45 minutes or 30 minutes so that he can perform his task after that role will automatically be removed. So I'm not creating elevated privilege role. Okay I'm saying description demo. I'm clicking on save. Once I saved it see a list is appeared in front of us which is contain roles, applications with role, tables, custom application, users, groups. So once we assign this role to any user then that user name will get displayed over here. Once we assign this role to any group then this role will displayed over here and if you want that it roles contains more roles then we can add more roles in this role. Okay let's say we have created a role A and then we want role B, C, D, E will be come in this A role then we will create those role from over here by new and edit button and when we give this role to a particular person then automatically that role will also get assigned to that particular person. Okay means this role will become a parent and the other role will become a child which automatically assigned once we assign this role to a user. Application with role when we create a ACL or when we create an application then we decided what kind of a role people must have those who can access that application then that will be useful and then that application will be displayed over here. So later on in upcoming videos we will be covering these things when we are creating ACLs, when we are creating applications. Then I will give you a demo that how that particular things will be getting displayed over here. So for now we will only talk about users and groups. Once I assign this role to user then user name will get displayed over here. Once I assign this role to group then group name will be displayed over here. So this is role, this is user. So through this we have come to know that how to create a user, how to create a role. Now let's talk about groups. So type groups, see under system administration same we have a groups. I am opening this group in a new tab. So see here is a list of groups we already have 34 groups in a system. So if I talk about groups, so group is basically a set of users who share the common purpose. Let's say service desk group. For example if we are creating an incident ticket then that incident ticket will automatically assign to a service desk group or some task management group which are working on change management or change management group, problem management groups. Then change management group is working on a change ticket, problem management group is working on a problem ticket, service desk is basically working on incident tickets. So to create a group click on new button. So once we click on a new button we have this form, we have to fill values in it. So name of a group I am saying demo. And I am saying manager. Manager of a group I am saying he is the person who is taking care of this particular group, he is the manager of this group. In case if there is some amount which has to be paid to a group for an hourly rate or something you can give the values over here. Group email id in case if you have let's say demo group. Demo.com. I have this parent of any group in case if you have then you can give a parent from here as well. So I am not giving right now. Let's put description. So here once I save, see we also have a related list over here like roles. If this group, if we are assigning any role to this group then we have a role over here. If we are assigning any member to this group then we have a member over here. If we are creating any group under this group then we can create a group from here as well. If we want to mention some skills for this group we can also mention those skills from here. So now we have created user, we have created role, we have created group. Even though we have logged in through the user who does not have any role now. So now as per as the use case we have created the user, we have created the custom role, we have created the group. Now we have to assign the role to the user directly. So as I told you that this is a user. If I want to assign a role to this user directly then what I will do, I will create this role. See I click on edit. So I am assigning him a role which name is ITIL. Okay so ITIL is a very basic role which is assigned to a user. If we want that the person can work on incident, person can work on a change ticket, person can work on other modules as well. So ITIL role is best for that because ITIL is basically a out of box technician role I can say which is by default provided by ServiceNow. It's basically a base system role ITIL. So I am selecting ITIL over here. So I am giving ITIL role to this user. See and I am clicking on save. Once I click save, see these roles are assigned to this user. So here this ITIL is displayed as false, inherited and other roles are true. Means this ITIL role contains all these roles. These all roles are inherited by ITIL. So once we assign this ITIL role to us, these roles are automatically assigned to user. So now this user which we have logged in here, he is having a ITIL role. Let's see earlier he is having access of only this 4. Let's see how after assigning a ITIL role what all access this user must have. So I am logging it out and logging it again. The name is demo user and the password is 123. I click on login. See so now page loads and see now he is having access of more applications. Now he is having access of incident management, problem management, change management. So in this way role works. So that basically depends on role that what all access we want to give to a user. What all tasks we want a user can perform. So we can decide it by giving roles. So in this way we can give a role to a user, individual user. But basically giving a role to a user directly is not a good practice. So good practice is basically that assign a role to a group and then align that user to that group. We will also do this in this video. So now here see if I refresh this page, role page and if I refresh this group page see no impact in this related list. Everything is blank. Because I have not given this role to anyone. I have not assigned this group to anyone. So what I am going to do is now that I am assigning this role to this group. So it will give us an understanding that how to assign a role to a group. So let's see how to assign a role to a group. So open the group, click on edit. You can directly assign a role from here. See we have to assign u underscore demo. So I am giving this role to this group. Click on save. See once I click on save, see under related list we have a role u underscore demo role which is given to this group. Let's refresh this role page. See now here in related list you can see that this role is assigned to which group. See here demo group. So this way we can assign a role to a group. Now if we align a user to this group then what will happen. See this is demo first user which I have created earlier. So what I am going to do I am adding this user to this group. So to adding a user navigate to group members, click on edit and you can select a user from here. So let's say demo user. See first demo and then click on save. See when I click on save, see group member first demo. The user name is displayed under group member. Role is getting displayed over here. Now let's see I am refreshing this role. Then it will give us a user name as well. Once I refresh this, see user name also populated over here because we have given this role to a particular user through the group. Getting my point? So now user is also getting displayed, group is also getting displayed. Now this user must also having this role. I am refreshing this user. Let's see where is the role. See this here. So in this way the best practice is that whenever we have to assign a role to a user, what we will do we will add a user to that group, the group which is having that role. So this group is having this role. We added this user to this group. Automatically the role is assigned to a user. So in this way we can add user to a group. Now let's see how we can remove role from user, how we can remove role from group. So the first thing is same that if you want to remove a role from a group, navigate to role, click on edit. Select the role which you want to revoke, move it back. Now this will become blank, click on save. See role is revoked now. This group having a group member but does not have any role now. So if I refresh this role page now, see user is removed, group is removed because the group does not have any role that means user does not have any role. So in this way we can remove the role as well and the same way we can also remove the role from the user. Click on edit. Select the role, go back. See role is removed. So in this way we can assign roles, we can remove roles, we can create user, we can create roles, we can create groups. If we are creating a user, that user will get saved in a table which name is sys underscore user. The role which we are creating over here will get saved into sys underscore user underscore role. So in this way, whatever group we are creating over here will get saved into sys underscore user underscore group. So these are basically the three tables where users, roles and groups whatever we are creating in a system getting saved. So friends this is all for this video. So I hope this video helps you to understand that how we can create users, roles and groups and how we can assign roles to groups and how we can assign roles to user. So soon I will be posting a next video of this ServiceNow training session. So this is all for this ServiceNow training session 1. So if you have not subscribed my channel, then please do subscribe my channel and please do not forget to click on a bell icon so that you can receive a notification that what all videos I am going to post in future. Thank you friends. Have a nice day. Bye bye.
